OMI SO2 Data Plotting System
----------------------------

Designed by J Cole-Baker
GNS Science
2008-2009


DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
-------------------

The following directories must exist in the OMI processing directory (this 
is the directory where the .SAV file is located for the compiled version):

config 
  - Configuration Files. This should contain omi.ini (configuration file). 
    If a logo is to be displayed on images, the logo image should also 
    be in config. This directory should also contain 'badscenes.ini'
    (see below). 

incoming 
  - Upload folder. This folder is writable by the NASA FTP login. Data
    files are uploaded here automatically.

logs 
  - Log files. batch_processing.log is used to keep track of batch 
    processing of OMI data. so2_summary.csv is a CSV format file 
    containing total SO2 for each region by date. New rows are appended 
    automatically by the batch processing. 

The following directories must also exist. The location of these directories
can be set in the config file (omi.ini): 

archive 
  - Archived OMI data files, filed by date (directories are named with 
    the convention 'YYYY-MM-DD')

output 
  - Output plots, filed by date (directories are named with the 
    convention 'YYYY-MM-DD')

temp 
  - Temp working space, used during batch processing. 


CONFIG FILE
-----------

The config file config/omi.ini contains settings to control how OMI batch
processing operates. Data lines have the format:

NAME=Value

Other lines are ignored. See the file for a description of the config 
values which can be set.

BAD SCENES FILE
---------------

Some 'scenes' (spectrometer pixels) in the OMI data are giving bad 
data. The list of bad scenes has changed over time. The Bad Scenes
list file ('badscenes.ini') sets the list of bad scenes by date. 
These pixels are filtered out in the processing. When processing 
a given date, the algorithm uses the last list of bad scenes 
with a date equal to or earlier than the date being processed. 
See notes in 'badscenes.ini'. 


LOG FILE
--------

The OMI Batch processing log (logs/batch_processing.log) keeps track of 
which dates have been processed by the OMI SO2 batch plotting system.

The file format is as follows.

Data lines look like this: 
YYYY-MM-DD NN PENDING|STARTED|DONE|SKIPPED [Comment]

I.e. They start a date (YYYY-MM-DD), then a 2-digit number (file count), 
then either 'PENDING', 'STARTED', 'DONE' or 'SKIPPED', followed by an 
optional comment. Items are seperated by a single space. 

All other lines are treated as invalid.

Example: 
2009-07-19 08 DONE Processed OK. (Mon Jul 20 06:00:57 2009)

Note that the file is overwritten each time processing is carried out. 
Invalid/Comment lines will be removed, and Data lines will be sorted by date. 

The file count (NN) is the number of data files found for the specified date. 

PENDING|STARTED|DONE|SKIPPED records the status of processing. 

PENDING: No data files exist for the date yet. 
STARTED: Processing was started. If this is left in the log, it generally
         means that the processing application hung and was terminated. 
         On sucessful completion, the status will be set to DONE. 
DONE:    Processing finished sucessfully with the specified number of 
         source files. 
SKIPPED: When the processing application reached this date, the status was
         'STARTED', meaning that the application hung last time. If this
         happens, the status is set to 'SKIPPED' and further processing of
         this day is not attempted. 

The batch processing application looks at the last n days before today 
(where n is set by BATCHDAYS setting in config/omi.ini). 

For each day, the number of data files available is compared to the NN 
value (or 0 if the day isn't in the log). If the number of files has 
changed, the day is processed. When processing is completed, the status is 
set to DONE. Each time a day is checked, a comment is set in the log. E.g.: 

"Checked. No new data. (Mon Jul 20 06:00:06 2009)"

The log file is used by the batch processing code and should not normally 
be edited. However, you can force the batch processing to behave in a 
certain way by editing the log file. For example, changing a date to 
'SKIPPED' will prevent any further attempt to process that date. Changing
NN to 00 will cause the batch processing to reprocess the date (if it is 
within the processing date range specified by the BATCHDAYS setting in 
config/omi.ini).  

When the log file is found to contain 365 days or more,  it is written out to a 
new file called 'batch_processing_YYYYMMDD.log' and a new log is started. 


SO2 SUMMARY
-----------

The file logs/so2_summary.csv contains total SO2 (ktonnes) for each output
region. This value is automatically calculated during batch processing and
added to the file. The format of the file must be as follows: 

Date,Region Name 1,Region Name 2,...    <--- Header Row
DD-Mmm-YYYY,n.nn,n.nn,...               <--- Data Row

Example: 

Date,South West Pacific,Vanuatu,New Caledonia
18-Jul-2009,96.74,7.78,6.26
19-Jul-2009,94.69,11.65,9.02
...

It's best not to open this file into an application such as a spreadsheet, 
as such applications may change the file format arbitrarily. Make a copy 
of the file somewhere else first. 
